>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, so we've
seen now and it's working our cache first.
Another strategy for serving files is
network first that you may understand by
the name what it's doing.
In this case,
it's prioritizing the network.
So in this case, my PWA is making
a request, that's step one here,
and the service worker drops the request
and it's not going to the cache,
it's actually going to the network.
And then if it's fetching
that from the network,
the service worker will say, okay,
we'll just take that and answer that.
But if the network fails,
it will go to the cache.
Why the network can fail,
because maybe you're offline, okay?
And so then if you're offline,
the network is failing,
you go to the cache and
you return the response from the cache.
So this is network first.
The advantage is freshness of the data.
The disadvantage is performance, because
now you are preferring the network, okay?
You have the code there.
In our project, if you wanna try it, it's
difficult to see the difference actually.
But if you go to the snippets,
you have it there.
If you wanna try it,
you just replace the fetch event
handler with this one and that's all.
And the same happens with the last one,
a stale while revalidate.
So let me explain that strategy, because
it's difficult to get the first time.
So, a stale while revalidate
is the other strategy.
And by the way,
these are strategies, not APIs,
which means you can create your own
strategy with your own logic, okay?
But this has a lot of things that are
going in and out, this is the thing.
The PWA makes a request, okay?
The second step, we search in the cache.
The second step, we go and
search in the cache.
Do we have it?
Okay, this is a cache hit.
We return the file and we are done.
This is like cache first, okay?
But what happens if it's not in the cache?
So its a cache miss.
We go and fetch from the network.
But instead of sending the response
directly to the PWA, we trap the answer,
we clone their response,
here we clone the response for what?
So we can update the cache.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So this is kind of
mixing both strategies at the same time.
It's cache first, but also we go and
fetch from the network at the same time.
Look at this.
We have two and two.
So at the same time,
we search in the cache and
also we fetch from
the network all the time.
But if it's in the cache,
we use the version from the cache, but
we also have a network request,
for what?
For updating the cache, for next load.
So if you change the CSS, now,
we're getting into Christmas.
So we wanna put some bells on your logo.
So you change your logo PNG, and actually
when the user is loading the page,
it will get the logo without
the Christmas bells.
But in the background, the service worker
is going to the logo of the server and
downloading the logo PNG anyway and
updating the cache.
So next time you open the app, the logo
with Christmas bells will be there.
Okay, that's the idea.
Again, you can create your own strategy.
And if you feel that
this is too low level for
what you are expecting,
you can use a framework.
And the framework for
service workers that everyone is using,
it was created by the Chrome team,
is called Workbox.
So, Workbox JS, it's a JavaScript
library for progressive web apps.
It's actually a set of libraries.
It's not just one library,
it's a collection of libraries.
And one of the libraries has to do
with strategies, precaching, and
then, you don't need to write
the service worker yourself.
You can use a higher level
API that will help you, okay?
>> Student 1: So are we always lagged
by one version compared to the network?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: With
a stale while revalidate, yes.
Is there any way to update once you
get the new version to do something?
Well, actually, first, you need to
know if there is a new version or not.
So the HTTP protocol doesn't have a way,
or a simple way to know that.
But also, if you already served one logo,
they're always on the screen.
So you could send messages
from the service worker,
you can send a message to the page,
hey page, there is a new logo.
So then the page can request a new logo,
but
then the user will see
some flashes on the page.
So the logo is changing, the CSS is
changing on the fly, it's kind of weird.
So that's why typically when you are doing
this, you are always one version,
and there are patterns to
detect that with JavaScript.
And you can even show a user
a message saying, hey,
there is a new version of the app.
Do you wanna load it now?
So instead of your app waiting for
the next load, you could ask the user.
So there are a lot of advanced techniques
to get more information about that.
And that leads to this slide that says,
if you wanna get more details,
including how to do this upgrade message,
JavaScript in
the Background course Frontend Masters
is what you're looking for.
There we go over service workers with more
time, it's just a workshop on that topic,
and we see all the possibilities
that you have with more details.
>> Student 2: I'm just wondering
about a use case for, I guess,
especially the cache first model,
because it makes sense,
that you would want fresh information,
updated information, and
you'd wanna show something, but you might
not want the flash of weird information.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Do you have
experience using libraries such
as React or Angular?
Well, what happens with the assets
that those libraries are generating?
Do you remember the final
name of your JavaScript?
What's the final name of your
JavaScript file, do you remember?
>> Student 2: JSX?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: No, the main.js or
bundle.js, things like that.
And typically it's not just main.js or
bundle.js, it's bundle dash or
dot, number, hash, .js,
not sure if you remember that.
So when you have that, if you change your
JavaScript code, it will change the URL.
So it's actually a different
asset from a URL point of view.
So, cache-first strategy means,
I don't care about updating this URL
because it will never be updated.
It's actually an immutable URL.
So there are cases where
your assets are immutable.
You say, maybe I wanna change the CSS.
But when you do that,
it's gonna be a different CSS.
Not that one.
Maybe you can see what happens,
then we are collecting CSS forever.
Well, then we can talk about
the storage permissions and
storage quotas, but you can clean
up things, but that's one case.
And also remember, you don't need to apply
the same technique to all the resources.
You can also say, okay, you know what?
For the image folder,
I'm going to use this strategy.
For the other folder,
I'm going to use another strategy.
>> Student 2: Okay, that's helpful.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, so then
you can decide what are you going to do,
that you are in charge.
You have complete control
of request answer.
You are kind of writing
your own web server here.
>> Student 2: And if you are using
a cache-first strategy for
some things like logos or
images that will probably be there for
a long time, but then you update them.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: You can always
send some kind of a signal from the server
at some points,
you can have a JSON file, for example,
that's another strategy, use cache first.
But then, on every page load,
you go and grab a manifest.json,
not the manifest.json we have here,
like assetsmanifest.json.
You download that file and that file
server side will have some flags saying,
hey, update everything, or
we have a new version of everything, or
we have a new version of the logo.
So your service worker can say, okay,
let's go grab the new version and
update the version in the cache.
So you can add your own logic.
You need some kind of a protocol with
your server that you need to create.
Actually, if you're using a React or
Angular or
View on created PWAs with them,
they create a service worker for you, and
that service worker has
some kind of that solution.
So every time you make a new build,
it creates an assets manifest with a hash,
and the service worker will download
that asset manifest and will check with.
Okay, let's see our storage,
do we have that logo?
Yeah, we have that version.
Okay let's see CSS,
there is a new one, okay?
Let's go and download a new one.
So that logic is already implemented
on those service workers,
and you can do that also with workbox JS,
you can implement in that.
So you can see it's
a huge topic by itself.